FOCUS helps calculate the curvature of a Gaussian beam at a                 
specific location that will give a certain waist size at a certain          
location.  This information is needed in 2D-mix-LP and 2D-mix-SP            
if the beams are focusing (have curved wavefronts). To run this             
function simply change any of the input values and the output               
values are automatically updated.  For example, if you want the             
beam to focus at the center of the crystal, use half the crystal            
length in the Dist. to focus input.  Filling in the Waist input will        
then give the radius of curvature in air at the crystal input face          
and the beam diameter at the crystal input face that are necessary to       
focus at the crystal center with the specified beam waist.                  
                                                                            
CAVITY helps design stable cavities in support of function 2D-cav-LP        
which can model cavities with curved mirrors. In order to mode match an 
input beam to a stable cavity, 2D-cav-LP needs as inputs the size and radius 
of curvature of the input beams just inside the left or right curved mirror. 
This information listed in the output boxes labeled "left in size" and "left 
input rad of curv" and another pair for the right inputs. If an input beam in 
2D-cav-LP is to resonant with the cavity, you must also specify the round trip 
Gouy phase shift due to focusing within the cavity. For example, for a ring 
cavity you can set the value of the input parameter 'Phase R-L' equal to the 
negative of the value of Cavity function output 'Roundtrip phase shift'.  This          
makes the wave resonant in the cavity, maximizing the cavity enhancement    
of the field. When this is set correctly the spectrum of the resonated      
wave will peak at a frequency shift of zero. Click the Spectrum button      
after a run to check this. Note that the Leg1 length refers to the          
distance between curved mirrors on the leg containing the crystal           
while Leg2 refers to the distance between curved mirrors on the other       
leg. Function executes when you change an input. It displays the 1/e^2 width
through the length of the cavity with the crystal highlighted in blue. 

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book