GVM calculates group velocity (mis)match for noncollinear phase       
matching. The paper "Group-velocity-matched three-wave mixing in      
birefringent crystals" Optics Letters vol. 26, page 719 (2001)        
describes the method of group velocity matching in birefringent       
crystals implemented in this function. This paper is available        
online at http://www.as-photonics.com/Publications.html. The
calculations are based on the d-tensor and Sellmeier equations
displayed in Qmix. The book "Crystal Nonlinear Optics: with SNLO 
examples" (as-photonics.com/book) also describes the method.
                                                                      
For a given crystal and set of wavelengths, and a specified slant     
of the pulse envelope, the propagation angles of the two redder       
beams relative to the blue (pump) beam are varied and the crystal     
phase matching angle Theta is located. For uniaxial crystals, all 
angles are in the plane containing the optic axis (z axis) of the 
crystal and the blue propagation vector. In biaxial crystals
the propagation vectors lie in the selected principal plane and the
phase matching angles are theta as measured relative to the Z axis
for the XZ or YZ plane and are phi as measured from the X axis for
the XY plane. The phase matching angles are plotted by the Angles 
button.  The group velocity walkoffs (relative to the blue) measured 
parallel to the blue wave's propagation vector are displayed by 
the GVM button.  Spatial walkoff perpendicular to the blue wave's 
propagation vector is displayed by the Walkoff button.  Group delay 
dispersion (GDD) as measured along    
the blue wave's propagation vector are displayed by the GDD button    
in units of fs^2/mm (to convert to GVD in cm/sec-cm^-1 use            
GDD=-5.89E-4 GVD gvi^2).
                                                                      
Slant angle is the tilt of the blue wave's pulse envelope relative    
to the normal to its propagation angle (k-vector direction). A
right click in the slant angle edit box displays a diagram of
the propagation vectors. I assume that all three envelopes have the
same alignment so they can overlap spatially. If the blue slant is 5
degrees, the red1 slant relative to its k vector is (5 degrees + delta),
and the red2 slant relative to its k vector is (5 degrees - gamma). 
This means that if the group velocities are matched the envelopes stay
overlapped in time (longitudinally), although they will walk off
spatially (laterally).
                                                                      
In the plots, solid lines correspond to positive values of Delta      
and Gamma, dashed lines correspond to negative values of Delta        
and Gamma.  Perfect group velocity matching occurs when the solid     
red, solid blue, and green curves coincide in the GVM plot or when    
the dashed red, dashed blue, and green curves coincide. The curves   
are adjusted by varying the slant angle input value.  Perfect         
velocity matching, if it can be found, will occur at a certain        
value of Theta.  The Angle button displays Delta and Gamma vs Theta   
permitting you to find the corresponding values of Delta and Gamma    
for each value of Theta. Likewise the spatial walkoff relative to     
the blue at that Theta can be found from the curves displayed by      
the Walkoff button.  Envelope slant also affects the group velocity   
dispersion.  Net effective gdd is plotted by the GDD button.
                                                                      
When a set of wavelengths, a crystal, a temperature, and a plane (if  
the crystal is biaxial) are selected, all polarization combinations   
that can phase match with nonzero deff are enabled. Select the one    
of interest by clicking its radio button.
                                                                      
Among other applications, this function is useful in predicting the   
far-field ring angles for the red1 and red2 waves in femtosecond   
OPG.  It is also useful in preconditioning input pulses to slant      
their envelopes for optimum group velocity matching. For example,     
if group velocity matching can be achieved, the crystal length is     
not limited by group velocity walkoff. This permits the use of longer 
crystals with the result that two photon absorption and nonlinear     
refractive index effects can be lessened by using lower intensities.  
Of course this requires beams large enough that spatial walkoff is    
not dominant, which in turn requires sufficient pulse energy.
                                                                      
GVM data is written to the ascii file GVM.DAT with format     
displayed in the View window when you click the 'View' button.
                                                                      
The last used input set is saved in the file mix.mat so if you would   
like to save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply     
rename) mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to   
mix.mat to restore.

If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled 
version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate
parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.
					  
GVM examples: 4, 5, 7.
(see file Examples with exercises and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder,
or on our website at as-photonics.com/examples)