NCPM (noncritical phase matching) helps you quickly search the list     
of crystals for one that can noncritically phase match your wavelengths.
                                                                        
Noncricitcal phase match refers to collinear phase matching with no     
birefringent walk off. It is desirable for efficient mixing of weak,    
tightly focused beams, and for maintaining the widest acceptance angle  
for all three beams. For uniaxial crystals the propagation direction    
is normal to the optic axis. For biaxial crystals the propagation       
direction is along one of the principal axes, X, Y, or Z.
                                                                        
For uniaxial crystals only mixing processes that involve a single       
e wave have nonzero d_eff. For negative uniaxial crystals the e wave    
is the bluest wave; for positive uniaxial crystals the bluest wave is   
o polarized and one of the two red waves is e polarized, the other is   
o polarized.
                                                                        
For biaxial crystals d_eff is sometimes nonzero only along two of the   
principal axes. When such a crystal is selected the appropriate radio   
buttons for the Propagation Axis are activated. Select the one of       
interest. Similarly, in some cases two polarization sets with nonzero   
d_eff are possible and the appropriate Mixing Type radio buttons are    
activated. Select the one of interest.
                                                                        
You can enter target wavelengths for one red wave and the blue wave.    
Horizontal and vertical gray lines will appear on the output plot       
at these wavelengths so you can conveniently adjust the temperature/    
mixing type/propagation axis/crystal to search for noncritical          
phase matching at the desired wavelengths.
                                                                        
If the temperature dependence of the refractive indices for a           
crystal are unknown and the temperature is not set to 300K,             
when the Run button is clicked the temperature will be set to 300K.
                                                                        
The calculations of this function are based on the d-tensor and
Sellmeier equations listed in Qmix. Other crystal properties such 
as d_eff, group velocity, or gdd may be found using QMIX or Ref. 
Ind. once a noncritical phase match is found.
                                                                        
The computed phase matching data is written to the file NCPM.DAT,
in the same format as displayed by the 'View' button.
                                                                        
NCPM examples: 67. See file Examples with exercises and
descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our website at 
as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book
