OPG models single-pass mixing with diffraction, birefringent walkoff, group velocity walk off, and group velocity dispersion with simulated quantum noise in both red waves. The quantum noise is automatically computed based on the inputs. Optional red seed light can be added to the noise by specifying red pulse energies and pulse durations.

This is a slow memory hog so try to select the best values for the time and spatial grids using the faster function PW-mix-BB before running OPG. The maximum sizes of the spatial and temporal grids depend on the amount of memory available to SNLO and your patience.

For help in setting an input value, right-click on the input edit box. Contextual help text appears in the lower text box.

The calculation is based on integrating Maxwell's equations using split-step FFT methods to give accurate diffractive and dispersive simulations. Methods are described in papers "Numerical models of broad bandwidth nanosecond optical parametric oscillators" JOSA B vol. 16 p. 609 (1999); "Phase distortions in sum- and difference-frequency mixing in crystals" JOSA B vol. 12 p. 49 (1995); and "Comparison of a numerical model with measured performance of a seeded, nanosecond KTP optical parametric oscillator," JOSA B vol. 12 p. 2253 (1995). These papers are available online at http://www.as-photonics.com/Publications.html

The phase velocity mismatch (k_3-k_1-k_2) refers to the carrier waves, ie the central frequencies and forward k vectors. The group velocity and group delay dispersion terms then account for phase mismatches at all other frequencies, while the walk off angle accounts for the phase mismatches for all other k-vector directions. This is automatic, you do not have to worry about how all the frequency and tilts are phase matching among themselves.

To specify temporal profiles, specify two numbers in the pulse duration input box (with the two arguments separated by a space). The first is the full-width half-max duration, and the second an optional supergaussian coefficient. The second argument should be an integer 0-10, where 0 represents a hyperbolic secant temporal shape, and 1-10 are super Gaussian temporal shapes of order specified (1 for normal Gaussian temporal profile).

The beam size and radius of curvature can be computed with the help of the Focus function. In OPG, the pump is usually focused so its Rayleigh range is approximately equal to the crystal length. Seed beams, if present, can be similarly focused.

Because OPG requires very high parametric gains, the number of z steps should be at least 200, and convergence should be verified by varying this number.

The grid sizes for time, and x&y are specified in the input form. The time grid must be large enough that it contains the entire pulses. Similarly, the x&y grids must be large enough to contain the beams. The number of t, x, and y points must be great enough to resolve all the temporal and spatial structure. Suggested starting values are 256x64x64. After running, check the profiles to see that they are well resolved - meaning there aren't abrupt changes in the power curve or fluence wire mesh plots.

Outputs include fluence profiles at the crystal output and in the farfield, and movies of the output irradiance as a function of time.

In the Beam box, the Analyze button computes tilts in both the walkoff and perpendicular directions, beam quality M-squared values in both the walkoff and perpendicular directions (M-w and M-p buttons), pulse-integrated M-squared values (written at top of M-squared plots), and wavefront curvature at the crystal output (Focus-w and Focus-p). M-squared, tilt, and focus can be displayed vs time or vs frequency.

Other outputs include power, normalized power, full-beam spectra, and full-beam chirps. These are all computed by summing over the transverse pixels. Click the Spectra button once to display the spectral shifts displayed in terahertz and click it a second time to display the shifts in nanometers.

The OPG output can be filtered post-run. The filters affect the time profiles and spectral profiles of the transmitted light. The three filters are described here.

Tilt filter:
Other analysis tools include a tilt/tune function which displays false-color plots of the spectral centroid corresponding to transverse k-vectors (beam tilts). The k-perp filter allows you to specify a maximum transverse k vector. Only light with smaller transverse k vectors is preserved. You can plot the filtered powers vs time or vs frequency.

Radius filter:
The Radius filter is similar to the tilt filter except the filter preserves only near-field light within the filter radius.

Spectral filter:
The Spectral filter passes the light through a Fabry-Perot filter of your design. You specify the free-spectral range, the center frequency, and the filter linewidth. The beams are assumed to be collimated so the Fabry-Perot is acting on a collimated beam.


Output files:
The following files are saved by this function:
OPG_BEAM_3TS.DAT: contains red1 beam analysis data. with columns time (in picoseconds), power (in watts) and (after pressing Analyze) Mx^2, pulse avg. Mx^2, My^2, pulse avg. My^2, x curvature, y curvature, x tilt, y tilt
OPG_BEAM_3TI.DAT: contains red2 beam analysis data. with columns time (in picoseconds), power (in watts) and (after pressing Analyze) Mx^2, pulse avg. Mx^2, My^2, pulse avg. My^2, x curvature, y curvature, x tilt, y tilt
OPG_BEAM_3TP.DAT: contains blue beam analysis data. with columns time (in picoseconds), power (in watts) and (after pressing Analyze) Mx^2, pulse avg. Mx^2, My^2, pulse avg. My^2, x curvature, y curvature, x tilt, y tilt
OPG_BEAM_3WS.DAT: contains red1 beam analysis data. with columns frequency shift (in Hz), red1 power (in watts) and (after pressing Analyze) Mx^2, pulse avg. Mx^2, My^2, pulse avg. My^2, x curvature, y curvature, x tilt, y tilt
OPG_BEAM_3WP.DAT: contains red2 beam analysis data. with columns frequency shift (in Hz), red2 power (in watts) and (after pressing Analyze) Mx^2, pulse avg. Mx^2, My^2, pulse avg. My^2, x curvature, y curvature, x tilt, y tilt
OPG_BEAM_3WI.DAT: contains blue beam analysis data. with columns frequency shift (in Hz), blue power (in watts) and (after pressing Analyze) Mx^2, pulse avg. Mx^2, My^2, pulse avg. My^2, x curvature, y curvature, x tilt, y tilt
OPG_FLUENCE3.DAT: near-field fluence profiles. columns are x position, y position, red1 fluence, red2 fluence, blue fluence
OPG_FLUENCE3F.DAT: far-field fluence profiles. columns are x spatial frequency, y spatial frequency, red1 fluence, red2 fluence, blue fluence
OPG_BEAM_3C.DAT: chirps. with columns: time (in seconds), red1 chirp, red2 chirp, blue chirp.
opg_2d_output.mat: contains some matlab readable variables
opg_2d_beam_analysis.mat: contains some matlab readable variables
low_tilt_spectra.mat: contains some matlab readable variables

The last used set of input parameters is saved in mix.mat so if you would like to save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply rename) mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to mix.mat to restore.

OPG examples: 78. See file Examples with exercises and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our website at as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics: with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at as-photonics.com/book