Opoangles computes OPO/OPA red1 and red2 wavelengths as a function of propagation angle in birefringent crystals assuming the blue (pump) wavelength is fixed.  For biaxial crystals, propagation is in one of the principal planes of the crystal so the Plane radio buttons are activated. Select the plane of interest. In biaxial crystals the angle is theta, measured from the Z axis for propagation in the XZ and YZ planes.  For propagation in the XY plane the angle is phi, measured from the X axis toward the Y axis. Calculations are based on the d-tensor and Sellmeier listed in Qmix.

Noncollinear mixing is permitted and the angles are as diagrammed in the plot window that displays when you right click the mouse in the blue tilt input box. Noncollinear phasematching displays tuning vs. red1 angle as is appropriate if the red1 wave is the red wave that is resonated in a cavity and thus has a fixed angle.  Blue tilt is measured relative to the red1 wave. Noncollinear phasematching is useful in tuning via blue angle and also to control the bandwidth of the output. It is also of interest for tangential phasematching. Note that the tilts are assumed to lie in the critical (walkoff) plane of the crystal. In some cases the bandwidth can be large (at points where the phase matching curves are tangent to a vertical line). At these points the red1 and red2 have equal group velocities along the red1 direction. The blue does not usually have the same group velocity as the red1 and red2, though, so this is not equivalent to matching all three group velocities as is desired for femtosecond mixing. Use function GVM for group velocity matching all three waves.

The deff's calculated for noncollinear mixing are approximate because they do not account for the tilts of the three waves, but instead assume that all three waves propagate parallel to the red1 wave. The deff's include Miller scaling for wavelength variation.

The Deff and Gain buttons display d-effective and relative parametric field gain, defined as sqrt(1/S0*L^2). To find actual parametric gain in cm-1, multiply the gain by the square root of the blue intensity in W/sq. cm.

The ascii file OPOANGLE.DAT contains the results and may be viewed by clicking the 'View' button.

The last used input set is saved in mix.mat so if you would like to save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply rename) mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to mix.mat to restore.

If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.

Opoangles examples: 3, 33. See file Examples with exercises and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our website at as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics: with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at as-photonics.com/book