PW-cav-LP models plane-wave mixing in cavities.  Input irradiances  
are those of the central rays of lowest order Gaussian beams with   
diameters specified by the Beam diam. input values.  You can model  
an OPO, cavity resonant SHG or any other cavity mixing process by   
specifying the input beams and the reflectivity of the mirrors at   
those wavelengths.  The crystal mixing is similar to PW-mix-LP.     
The cavity configuration can be standing wave or ring.              
                                                                    
Each wave can be either cw or pulsed so both cw and pulsed devices, 
or devices with both cw and pulsed beams can be modeled.  If the    
Pulse duration input value is set to zero, that light beam is cw.   
If it is nonzero, a temporal Gaussian pulse is assumed.             
                                                                    
For a ring cavity, the reflectivity of the third mirror is unity    
for all three waves.  You can specify phase shifts in various parts 
of the cavity for each wave.  This is useful in modeling OPO's that 
resonate more than one wave or for modeling seeded OPO's when the   
cavity is not exactly resonant with the seed.  Usually the phases   
are set to zero to model optimum OPO performance.                   
                                                                    
To model an OPO, it is easiest to supply a red1 or red2 (not        
both) seed to either end of the cavity.  If you seed both the       
red waves you must be careful of phases. For approximate            
modeling of an unseeded OPO, use a vacuum level field (one photon   
per mode) to seed either the red wave.  This is approximately       
1e-9 watts. The exact value is not critical because the OPO         
behavior is usually not very sensitive to the seed power.           
                                                                    
For strongly driven OPO's you might see bistable or even chaotic    
behavior of the output powers. This is normal and probably not due  
to numerical problems. It may not be very physical though, because  
real OPO's do not have plane waves, and spatial averaging over      
irradiance profiles tends to hide this behavior.                    
                                                                    
The OPO output from both the left and right ends are written to     
the ascii files PWOPO_R.DAT and PWOPO_L.DAT.  They can be viewed    
by choosing the Right or Left selector and clicking the             
'View' button.                                                      
                                                                    
If the number of starts is set to 1, the time increment is the round
trip time of the cavity. For a time resolution of half the round    
trip time, set the number of starts to 2. Higher numbers give       
still higher time resolution.                                       
                                                                    
Batch mode is allowed on most inputs. Only one variable can be      
batched on any run. A batch run is automatically performed if the   
input box contains three numbers with space separating them. The    
format is: [starting value] [space] [ending value] [space]          
[increment]. If batch mode is used the output is written to         
sequential files names PWOPOR#.DAT and PWOPOL#.DAT where # is 0     
for first run, 1 for second run, ... The last run in the batch      
also writes the files PWOPO_R.DAT and PWOPO_L.DAT as before.        
The file PWOPOLP.TXT contains copies of the output text box for     
all runs in the batched series. Open this file using Wordpad.       
                                                                    
The last used input set is saved in the file mix.mat, so if you would
like to save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply   
rename) mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back    
to mix.mat to restore.                                

If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled 
version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate
parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.               
                                                                    
PW-cav-LP examples: 36, 40, 41, 46, 51-53, 55, 56, 69. See file 
Examples with exercises and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or 
on our website at as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book