PW-mix-SP computes three-wave mixing process for plane waves with   
irradiances equal to those of the central rays of spatial lowest    
order Gaussian beams with beam diameters and energies specified in  
the input form.  It ignores birefringent walkoff but includes group 
velocity effects, so it is useful for modeling very short pulses.   
cw light is not allowed in this function.  Pulses are Gaussian or   
Supergaussian in time at the input face. The three input pulses     
can have different durations and delays. For help in setting input
values, right-click on the input edit box. Help text appears in 
the lower text box. 
                                                                    
Clicking the Spectra button once gives the spectral irradiance      
on a THz scale. Clicking the Spectra button again gives the spectral
irradiance on a nanometer scale.                                    
                                                                    
A post run movie is available if "# z integration steps" input is   
set to zero before the run. The Run button will turn into a Movie   
button after the run.                                               
                                                                    
This function integrates Maxwell's equations using split-step       
methods for accurate simulation of group velocity effects.          
Nonlinear refractive indexes (n2's) and two-photon absorption       
(beta's) can be included.  The n2 and beta values are not well known
for most crystals, but some values and references are listed in the 
file beta_n2.pdf in your SNLO folder.                               
                                                                    
Results for the fields are written to the ascii file pw_mix_sp.dat   
and can be viewed by clicking the 'View' button. Results for the    
spectra are written to the files pw_mix_sp_s.dat (text format) and
pw_mix_sp_s.mat (MATLAB file format).                                
                                                                    
The last used input set is saved in mix.mat so if you would like to  
save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply rename)   
mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to         
mix.mat to restore.                                                  

If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled 
version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate
parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.
                                                                    
PW-mix-SP examples: 1, 2, 6, 8, 11, 13, 17, 74. See file Examples
with exercises and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our 
website at as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book