PW-mix-LP computes three-wave mixing process for long-pulse plane-     
waves. The input irradiances are those of the central rays of spatial  
lowest-order Gaussian beams with diameters and energies specified in   
the input form.  This function ignores birefringent and group          
velocity walkoff.  It is intended for very quick evaluation of a       
proposed mixing process. For help in setting input values, right-
click on the input edit box. Help text appears in the lower text box.                           
                                                                       
The model will handle pulses or cw light or a combination of the two.  
To make a beam cw, set its pulse duration parameter to zero.  Because  
group velocity is ignored, (it is included in PW-mix-SP and 2D-mix-SP) 
this model is not accurate for very short pulses (less than 10's of    
psec usually), or for broad-bandwidth mixing where the bandwidths      
exceed the crystal's acceptance bandwidth (use PW-mix-BB).  Similarly, 
if birefringent walk off is comparable to, or larger than the beam     
diameters, this function will not be very accurate (use 2D-mix-xx).    
                                                                       
Results are written to the ascii file PWMIX_LP.DAT and may be viewed   
by clicking the 'View' button.                                         
                                                                       
The last used input set is saved in mix.mat so if you would like to     
save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply rename)      
mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to            
mix.mat to restore.                                                     
                                                                       
If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled 
version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate
parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.

PW-mix-LP examples: 16, 18-23, 27, 39. See file Examples with 
exercises and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our website 
at as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book