PW-mix-BB computes three-wave mixing processes for plane waves with      
input irradiances equal to those of the central ray of lowest order      
Gaussian beams with energy and diameter specified on the input form.     
It ignores birefringent walkoff but includes group velocity effects.     
It is intended for modeling multi-longitudinal-mode pulses.  The         
number of modes populated in each model run is sufficient to cover       
the specified bandwidth for each beam. Quantum noise is automatically
added to the red1 and red2 waves. The noise bandwidths of the red
waves can be extended by specifying the bandwidth parameter. This
inclusion of quantum noise is to approximate OPG modeling. However, 
to properly model OPG the spatial structure of the red beams should be 
noisy as well. In most other applications it will be invisible. The noise
spectrum can be seen by setting d_eff to zero and setting the red
energies or powers to zero, running and clicking 'Spectra'. 
                                                                         
If the wavelength, duration, bandwidth, mode spacing, and fm inputs      
are identical for the red1 and red2 waves, they are assumed to be from   
the same source and will have identical starting spectra. This allows    
modeling of type 1 doubling. For type 1 doubling all entries for red1 and
red2 should be identical and half the power/energy should be in each.    
                                                                         
Unless the 'frequency modulated' input is set to one, the broadband      
light is chaotic, meaning the distribution of field amplitudes among     
the various modes obeys Gaussian statistics and the phase distribution   
is random. Some OPO's generate light that is more frequency              
modulated than chaotic, so the input 'frequency modulated' allows        
this type of input light. Frequency modulated light has the specified    
bandwidth but the amplitude modulation is removed, leaving only          
frequency modulation.                                                    
                                                                         
Long pulses with broad bandwidths will require a large amount of         
computer memory and computation time.  Often you can shorten the         
pulse duration without losing the important physics and in this way      
lessen the demands on your computer.  Note that there is no input        
for nonlinear refractive index effects or for two-photon absorption.     
They can be added if there is sufficient interest.                       
                                                                         
Results are written to the file 'pw_mix_bb.dat' and may be viewed by           
clicking the 'View' button. The first column is time (in nanoseconds),
followed by red1, red2, and blue on-axis irradiances (in watts per square
meter). The last three columns are red1, red2, and blue phases (in 
radians).

Also written to the file 'pw_mix_bb_fluence.dat' are the red1, red2, 
and blue on-axis fluences as a function of z. This file is loaded
and plotted when pressing the 'Fluence' button. The file consists of
four columns: the first is z position (in meters), then red1, red2
and blue on-axis fluences (in joules per square meter).
                                                                         
The last used input set is saved in mix.mat so if you would like to       
save those settings for later recall, copy (do not simply rename)        
mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to              
mix.mat to restore.                                                       
                                                                         
If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled 
version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate
parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.																		 
																		 
PW-mix-BB examples: 12, 59, 68, 76. See file Examples with exercises 
and descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our website at 
as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book