PW-OPO-SP models a singly-resonant, plane-wave, synchronously-pumped    
OPO.  The irradiance of the plane pump wave is set equal to the central 
ray of a lowest-order spatial Gaussian whose beam diameter is specified 
in the input form under 'Beam diameter'.  This function includes        
group velocity and group delay dispersion but not higher order          
dispersion. The OPO cavity is a ring, with only the red1 wave           
resonated. The duration of the blue (pump) pulses are specified. The
shape of these pulses can be changed by including an optional integer
0-10 following the duration, separated by a space. 
For integer value of 0, the pulse is a hyperbolic secant squared; a
value of 1 is a typical Gaussian; values of 2+ are super Gaussians
which increasingly resemble top-hat profiles with increasing value.
For help in setting input values, right-click on the input edit box. 
Help text appears in the lower text box.
                                                                        
The modeling procedure is to propagate the three light pulses           
(red1, red2, blue) thru the crystal, then apply any Compensator         
(see diagram in the plot window) changes to the red1 pulse.             
The output pulses from that pass of the cavity are then plotted.        
The red1 pulse can be emitted before or after the compensator and       
both possibilities are plotted as the red and gray traces. For          
the next cavity pass, a new blue (pump) pulse is used, along with       
the last reflected red1 pulse. This is repeated until the pulses        
stabilize.  At the bottom of the Windows input form the pass number     
is indicated along with the % change in the red1 pulse on the last      
pass. When the % change is sufficiently small to indicate convergence   
(usually when the % change < .05) click the STOP button and the         
results of the previous pass are plotted and written to the ASCII       
output file PWOPO_SP.DAT which you can view after running a case        
by clicking the 'View' button. The Display radio buttons can be         
used to display either the irradiance, normalized irradiance,           
frequency chirp, or phase. The Display button can be changed            
during a run.                                                           
                                                                        
Simulated quantum noise on the red1 and red2 beams is added on          
each cavity pass. The OPO starts from this noise. The quantum noise     
can be viewed by setting d_eff=0 and selecting the 'Norm Irrad'         
radio button and running.                                               
                                                                        
Stable operation of the OPO is not guaranteed. In some cases the        
OPO never turns on, perhaps because the cavity delay input is           
incorrect. In other cases the OPO turns on but never reaches            
stable operation.                                                       
                                                                        
After the run is stopped, you can click the 'Irradiance',               
'Norm Irrad', 'Chirp', 'Phase', or 'Spectra' buttons to view            
results from the last pass. Clicking 'Spectra' once displays            
the spectrum on a THz scale. Clicking it again displays on a            
nm scale. Compress adds a gdd to the red1 output. This is               
useful in testing the compressibility of the output pulse. Click        
the up or down arrow buttons repeatedly to find the best                
compression. The size of the up or down step can be adjusted            
by clicking the + or - button.                                          
                                                                        
The last-run input set is saved in mix.mat, so if you would like         
to save those settings for later recall, copy (do not just rename)      
mix.mat to another file name to store. Copy the file back to             
mix.mat to restore settings.                                             

If you are running mlSNLO under MATLAB (not the standalone compiled 
version), this function can be called from a MATLAB script to automate
parametric studies. See the 'SNLO' help tab for details.
                                                                        
PW-OPO-SP examples: 35, 71, 77. See file Examples with exercises and
descriptions.pdf in mlSNLO folder, or on our website at 
as-photonics.com/examples

Detailed discussions of crystal nonlinear optics and
SNLO examples are presented in the book "Crystal nonlinear optics:
with SNLO examples," advertised on the SNLO download page or at
as-photonics.com/book