This function computes steady-state temperature profiles created by
a specified heat profile plus specified thermal boundary conditions
and thermal properties of the crystal. The crystal shape is assumed
to be a rectangular prism or cuboid. The three dimensions of the
prism can be unequal. For help in setting input values, right-click on
the input edit box. Help text appears in the lower text box.
                                                                          
The heat profile is a super Gaussian in the horizontal and vertical
directions and an exponentially growing or decaying profile in the
longitudinal direction. The light beam propagates along the
longitudinal direction.
                                                                          
The boundary conditions are specified for four sides of the crystal
(top, bottom, left and right) as either cooled or uncooled. The
input and output faces are uncooled. Cooled means the temperature
is fixed at a zero temperature rise. Uncooled means there is no
heat flow through the face.
                                                                          
The thermal conductivity is specified for the horizontal, vertical,
and longitudinal directions. This means the thermal conductivity
tensor is diagonal when expressed in the horizontal, vertical and
longitudinal axis frame. This is not generally true, since the
tensor can be nondiagonal in this frame, but that case is not
treated in this function. If the conductivity is the same or
nearly the same in all directions this is not a significant
handicap. The conductivity tensor is diagonal if the crystal is
aligned for angle noncritical mixing in crystals where the
conductivity and refractive index tensors are aligned, as they are
for all crystal classes except triclinic (class 1) or monoclinic
(classes 2 and m). Thermal conductivities are listed in QMix if
they are known. It is up to the user to translate those
conductivities which are specified in the refractive index frame
x,y,z into the frame h,v,l.
                                                                          
The thermal conductivities are assumed to be temperature
independent, which is a good approximation if the temperature
rises are small.
                                                                          
The outputs include the temperature profile, the heat profile,
the strengths of the thermal lens in the horizontal and vertical
directions, and the amount of tilt in the horizontal and vertical
directions computed at the center of the heat profile. The lens
and tilt are specified for propagation in air. The thermal lense
and tilt are computed from the thermally-induced optical path
length change integrated along the length of the crystal. Thermal
lensing and tilt due to thermally-induced strain are not included
in this model.
                                                                          
Sources of heating in nonlinear crystals include linear absorption
of any of the three mixing waves, or two-photon absorption due to
any combination of the waves. Two-photon absorption heating can be
derived from some of the SNLO mixing models if the two-photon
absorption coefficients beta are known.
                                                                          
The temperature profile is solved using Fourier transform methods
(see Numerical Recipes in C). The heat flow equations are presented
and discussed in the book "Crystal Nonlinear Optics with SNLO
examples" in Chapter 14.
                                                                          
The time required to approach the steady-state temperature that
is computed by this function can be approximated using the equation
diffusion time = r^2 * C * rho / K,
where r i s the distance from the heat source to the side of the
crystal in meters, C is the specific heat of the crystal in J/kg-K,
rho is the density in the crystal in kg/m^3, and K is the thermal
conductivity in W/m-K and the diffusion time is in seconds.